This video is a follow up to the previous video on introduction to random numbers in python.
This shows the exercise.
So if you haven't gone through the previous video already then I recommend going through that video
first and then coming back to this video.
All right.
So the goal of this exercise is to generate a normal distribution with these two parameters so the normal
distribution should have a mean of 15 and a standard deviation of four point three.
So the mean and standard deviation are too descriptive.
Statistical properties they refer to the center of this distribution.
So for we're considering the blue line here.
So the mean the average of the distribution is 0 and the standard deviation is basically the width of
this distribution.
How wide this distribution is and that is by default set to 1.
So you already know how to generate a normal distribution or random numbers selected from a normal distribution.
And when you have to figure out how to do is get the average value the mean to be 15 and the standard
deviation to be four point three.
So good luck.
Positive video switch to Python.
Write some code.
And now I will switch to Python and show you how I solved this problem.
Let's start by defining the parameters so we want the desired mean to be 15 and the desired standard
deviation to be four point three.
So now our numbers our numbers so NDP that random that Rand N and so I didn't exactly say how many random
numbers you should draw but I'm going to say 1000 here now before figuring out how to modify these numbers
to get the desired statistical characteristics that we want here.
I'm just going to quickly plot these out and in fact I'm gonna put them in subplots.
Let's say P L T that subplot 1 2 1.
So this means I'm going to generate a subplot geometry that is one row two columns and I'm gonna start
plotting into the first subplot.
So BLT teed up plot and this is just going to be the numbers themselves.
And then peel that subplot to 1 2 so there's gonna be in the subplot to the.
To the right of this one I'm going to peel T.
I'm gonna draw a histogram of these numbers.
Okay.
Then peel to show.
So so far this looks good.
It has a mean of zero and a standard deviation that I believe is going to be about 1 because I haven't
modulated these numbers yet.
And then what I want to do underneath here is print out the observed mean and standard deviation.
So print and I'll say this distribution has a mean of percent S and a standard deviation of another
percent s and then we need to replace these two.
So the first one is going to be the means that num pi dot mean numbers.
And then the next one is the standard deviation so num Pi the sd d.
Numbers all right.
So let's see we have a mean of zero point zero five and a standard deviation of point nine nine.
Now this might seem a little bit strange considering that I said that the average should be zero.
The means should be zero and these standard deviations should be 1.
But keep in mind that because we are drawing random numbers from this distribution the actual mean is
likely to be a little bit different from zero.
So it's basically just guaranteed to be close to zero.
And the standard deviation close to 1 but each time we rerun this code it's gonna be slightly different.
Now you can see the average is a little bit below zero.
Okay so let's start modulating this distribution.
So the first thing I'm going to do is multiply by the desired standard deviation and you can see that.
Now this cloud of dots is a little bit wider.
So before you know most of the dots were between let's say one and a half or two and minus one and I
have to do with a few dots that are further away.
And now the distribution goes from minus you know minus twelve or so up to 12 or maybe 13.
So here we see this distribution as a mean that's still pretty close to zero and a standard deviation.
That is not exactly four point one six but instead is relatively close to four point three.
I meant to say that it's not exactly four point three but it is kind of close.
Okay.
So now we need to shift the mean and that one is a bit easier.
So we just do this by saying desired mean.
So I'm multiplying by the standard deviation and then adding the mean.
So this plus the desired mean this shifts the distribution and the times the standard deviation stretches
the distribution
so here we see we get a mean of pretty close to but not exactly 15 and a standard deviation that is
pretty close to four point three but not exactly four point three.
Now depending on how precise you want to be this might be good enough for you or it might be not good
enough for you.
Maybe you want this distribution to have exactly exactly.
I mean of 15 and exactly a standard deviation of four point three.
So how can we do this.
It turns out the procedure for getting these desired statistics to be exact.
In this particular dataset is not so difficult to figure out how to get that to work.
We just have to think a little bit about what's going on here.
So what's going on here is that this distribution has a theoretical mean of zero but because we're only
generating 1000 numbers and not an infinite number of numbers then it's not going to be exactly zero
as you've already seen.
So what can we do.
Well we can first generate this distribution and then force that distribution to have a mean of exactly
zero.
So let me show you how that's going to work.
What I'm going to do or comment this out for the moment we'll get back to this later.
What I'm going to do is actually first I'll just run it again just to show you again that the mean is
going to be close to zero but not exactly zero.
Now that we've generated this set of numbers I can enforce the mean to be exactly zero.
And then I do by subtracting the mean.
So I say mean and then the numbers.
So this is saying compute the empirical mean of this distribution.
This set of numbers and then subtract that from the actual numbers that we've gotten.
So let's see what the mean is now.
Okay.
So now the mean is 10 to the minus 18.
So I've already talked to you before about computer rounding error and scientific notation.
So this is basically as close to zero as we can reasonably expect for a computer.
So let's try this again a couple of times.
And now again we get an average of this distribution that is tend to the minus 18.
And let's try it again.
And still it's around 10 to the minus 18.
So that means that now when I add the desired mean back to this distribution it's going to have exactly
the intended outcome.
So plus desired mean.
All right.
So now we see that this distribution has a mean of fifteen point zero.
So this is basically exactly 15.
And we can run this multiple times and you can see that it's always going to have a mean of 15.
However the standard deviation is still not always exactly exactly 1.
So therefore multiplying it by the desired standard deviation is also not going to give us our desired
standard deviation in a exact precise way.
So we need to do is further modulate these numbers to make sure that this distribution has a standard
deviation of exactly one so that this multiplication is going to work so and then it turns out that
the way we do that is also fairly simple.
We say the distribution equals itself divided by the empirical standard deviation so now I'm gonna run
this and let's see what the standard deviation is.
Okay.
So not exactly one but it's you know.
Point 9 9 9 and then and then a nine and who knows how many nines there are after this.
Let's try it again.
And okay now we get exactly a standard deviation of one point zero.
All right.
So now I can actually take this code and move it up here and I will delete this because I think it's
now just adding confusion.
So notice that the procedure was generally the same.
We still take the numbers that are drawn from a normal distribution.
Multiply them by the desired standard deviation and add them to the desired mean.
The main difference is that I added these two lines of code here which are basically normalization codes
that force that this distribution has a mean of zero and a standard deviation of 1.
So now we can run this and we get a mean of 15 and a standard deviation of four point three.
I hope you found this and the previous video informative and insightful throughout the rest of this
section we are going to be generating random numbers in particular random phase values for computing
trigonometric values.
So if you're curious to see some applications of generating random numbers then stay tuned to the next
video.